>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
so this next step,
this is one of those out of thin air, how
would you have ever imagined to do this.
The inside of each of those reducers,
that is lines 3 and 4,
and lines 10 and 11.
I want you to look very closely
at those two sets of lines.
And I want you to see that there is
something very similar about those lines.
>> Kyle Simpson: Do you see that in
both pairs of lines in line 3 and 4 and
in line 10 and 11 in both cases,
what fundamentally
happens is a value and
an array get reduced into a new array.
That is, that we push a value into
an array and then we return it.
>> Kyle Simpson: There is
definitely the if statement, and
there is definitely the mapping,
but abstract with there we see that
there's something generic occurring,
which is take a value in an array and
reduce them combine them together into
a new array, or an extended array rather.
Okay, here's what we're gonna do,
we're gonna factor out that
whole genericism part.
We're gonna say, that taking an array and
the value and combining them, we're gonna
make a combiner, and we are gonna use
that combiner in both of these reducers.
We are gonna do some drying,
if you will, right?
Take those parts that are the same out and
use that combiner.
So here's how we are gonna do that.
Up on the top, line 1 through 4,
I have my list combination function,
it is a combiner.
Look at the shape of it.
It takes two values and
produces one value as a return.
What shape is that?
>> Speaker 2: Reducer.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's just
a reducer, right?
It is the shape of a reducer.
It takes two values and
reduces them into one.
In this case, the kind of reduction
that it's doing is value into an array.
But we've seen lots of other reducers
like two numbers being added together or
two strings being concatenated.
This is just a different
kind of reduction.
Is a reduction between an array and
a value, okay?
So temporarily, we've got this standalone
function called list combination and
it definitely has that
side effect thing in it.
Doesn't it?
Is doing list that push instead
of making a new list and
concatenated on to the end of the list.
It's modifying list by reference.
And that is definitely a bad idea
from the general perspective.
But we're just gonna hold this for
one couple more steps and
then it's not gonna matter, okay?
Let's look at how we're
using that utility.
Look at lines 8 and 14.
On line 8 and line 14,
we're just simply deferring to that list
combination function to do its work.
We're simply passing a long list and
the value to push into it on line 8.
And then on line 14,
we are only calling list combination
if the if statement passed.
But we're letting list combination handle
the details of deciding how to take
an array and a value and
put them together.
>> Kyle Simpson: Everybody with me?
>> Kyle Simpson: So look down at
the bottom, lines 22 through 24,
they haven't changed at all.
All we've done now is factor out
that idea of taking an array,
and a value and putting them together.
We've factored that out as
a generic kind of reducer.
Another one of those that would have never
occurred to me, where did that come from?
Is that we could observe that even
though our reducers are hard coded to
list combination, that's only one kind of
possible way that combination might occur.
>> Kyle Simpson: We might want to
parameterize the combiner function.
We might want to be able to provide
that combiner function as an argument.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we're gonna do one
more step of obstruction which is to add
one more layer of function wrapping
here where before we even provide
the mapping function, we provide
the combiner to use in the reducer, okay?
So, here's what that looks like.
We have a map producer that is
expecting a mapping function and
a combiner and I've done it with a curry.
So look how the map producer
is expecting two inputs, but
I've made it a curried function.
>> Kyle Simpson: And look how filter
reducers is expecting a predicate and
a combiner, but
I've made it a curried function,
specifically it's waiting for two inputs.
So look down on line 22,
you can see that add one,
when I call map producer with add one it's
coming in as the first of these inputs.
It's coming in as the input for
mapping function.
And on line 23, when I say is odd,
that one is going to come
in as predicate function.
And map producer of add one is
returning us a new function,
an intermediate function,
which is waiting for what?
What are we going to pass to it?
>> Kyle Simpson: We're gonna
pass to it a combiner.
We're gonna pass to it a reducer.
So map reducer with add one
has returned to us a high
order reducer, a proto-reducer, right?
It's a thing that will make a reducer if
provided a combiner, aka, another reducer.
And the same is true with filter reducer
that when we pass in is odd we get
back that intermittently function
that's waiting combine function,
and then we pass in list combination for
it.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
rather than having it hard coded,
we've just now made it a thing
that we can pass along.
>> Kyle Simpson: We still have
fundamentally three reduced cost, okay?
I know it feels like when are we
ever gonna make progress, but
it's very incremental here, right?
I'm showing you each of
the steps of the thinking.
And I couldn't even begin to show
you the mathematical steps, but
I can at least kind of explain to you how
these programming steps are working out.
How you might if potentially come
up with the idea that I would
abstract out a generic detail
into something I pass in, right?
We've done that kinda thing
in programming before, and
that's essentially what is happening here.
Did you have a question?
>> Speaker 3: Yes,
we just wanted to ask about curry and
why it was taking two arguments.
>> Kyle Simpson: So curry needs to know
how many arguments it's expecting to wait
for, cuz it can't always determine
how many arguments you are expecting.
So by passing the number two,
we're saying make me a function that's
gonna wait until it gets two inputs.
If we say curry 9 we'd have a function
that would wait for nine inputs,
does that make sense?
>> Speaker 3: Yes.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah,
good question, okay?
So curry here is what's allowing
us to provide those separately.
And that looks odd, you might say well
why don't I just, if I'm calling out one
in least combination I can just
call it as a single function call.
Why did we curry several times
earlier in our course together?.
What was the real benefit
of doing currying?.
Yes.
>> Speaker 4: To have a unitary type
of function?
>> Kyle Simpson: That's true,
we wanted a unitary type of function but
what was that accomplishing for us.
What was the whole section of
that discussion talking about?
Why were we doing currying or
partial application?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: To create specialization
from generalization.
So we could say that now producer that
takes two things is a more general
function.
And if I pass it the mapper or
if I pass it the predicate,
it becomes a more specific
function doesn't it?
One that only needs the combiner and
that more specific function, is this
transducers thing that we've been talking
about this high order reducer, okay?
So if we take a series of amounts,
or a series of filters and
turn them into transducers,
that's essentially the goal.
We wanna turn them into these higher
order inducers, that are waiting for
something like list
combination to be passed in.